Later in the course,
we will dive deep into the process of managing data science projects and initiatives.
For now however, I would like to introduce
eight steps that are typically involved in that process.
First, you must identify the data science opportunity and determine success criteria,
such as key performance indicators or KPIs.
Second, you need to obtain the data required for the data science project.
This may require building ETL or extract, transform,
and load pipelines and processes to bring
the data from different sources together to be available for a data science model.
Third, you need to explore, understand,
and prepare that data to use in a modeling context.
Fourth, you need to identify
methodological approaches that will be considered in the data science process.
Fifth, you need to partition your data.
Data science models usually require your data to be split into a training set,
a subset of your data that you used to train a machine learning model,
and a test set,
a smaller subset that's held out from training,
so it can be used to evaluate your machine learning model.
Sixth, you need to build and evaluate models based on the aim of your project.
Seventh, once you have selected the model best suited for your use,
you need to deploy that model in production.
Finally, eighth, models in production need continued attention through maintenance.
Steps such as model retraining and model rollback
and redeploy make up the process of model maintenance.